# Blood-Donation-Analysis
One of the interesting aspects about blood is that it is not a typical commodity. First, there is the perishable nature of blood. Grocery stores face the dilemma of perishable products such as milk, which can be challenging to predict accurately so as to not lose sales due to expiration. Blood has a shelf life of approximately 42 days according to the American Red Cross (Darwiche, Feuilloy et al. 2010). However, what makes this problem more challenging than milk is the stochastic behavior of blood supply to the system as compared to the more deterministic nature of milk supply. Whole blood is often split into platelets, red blood cells, and plasma, each having their own storage requirements and shelf life. For example, platelets must be stored around 22 degrees Celsius, while red blood cells 4 degree Celsius, and plasma at -25 degrees Celsius. Moreover, platelets can often be stored for at most 5 days, red blood cells up to 42 days, and plasma up to a calendar year.  Amazingly, only around 5% of the eligible donor population actually donate (Linden, Gregorio et al. 1988, Katsaliaki 2008). This low percentage highlights the risk humans are faced with today as blood and blood products are forecasted to increase year-on-year. This is likely why so many researchers continue to try to understand the social and behavioral drivers for why people donate to begin with. The primary way to satisfy demand is to have regularly occurring donations from healthy volunteers.  Aim Of Project: To build a model which can identify who is likely to donate blood again. Models implemented: Logistic Regression, Suport Vector Machine, Random Forest, Decision Tree, MLP Classifier.
